docs/spec.md, before:

---
summary: 'Plan for the mcp-runtime package replacing the Sweetistics pnpm MCP helpers.'
---

# mcp-runtime Roadmap

> Inspired in part by Anthropic’s guidance on MCP code execution agents: https://www.anthropic.com/engineering/code-execution-with-mcp

## Goals
- Provide a TypeScript runtime + CLI that exposes all MCP servers defined in `~/Projects/sweetistics/config/mcp-runtime.json`.
- Preserve current one-shot `pnpm mcp:call` ergonomics while enabling reusable connections for Bun/Node agents.
- Keep feature parity with the Python helper (env interpolation, stdio wrapping, OAuth caching) and extend test coverage.

## Deliverables
- `packages/mcp-runtime` (standalone npm package) exporting:
  - `createRuntime()` for shared connections (list/call tools, resolve resources).
  - `callOnce()` convenience matching today’s single-call flow.
  - Typed utilities for env/header resolution and stdio command execution.
- CLI entry point (`npx mcp-runtime list|call`) built on the same runtime.
- Test harness using the Sweetistics MCP fixtures to validate every configured server definition.
- Documentation: README, usage examples, migration guide for replacing `pnpm mcp:*`.

## Architecture Notes
- Load MCP definitions from JSON (support relative paths + HTTPS).
- Reuse `@modelcontextprotocol/sdk` transports; wrap stdio via `scripts/mcp_stdio_wrapper.sh`.
- Mirror Python helper behavior:
  - `${VAR}`, `${VAR:-default}`, `$env:VAR` interpolation.
- Optional OAuth token cache directory handling (defaulting to `~/.mcp-runtime/<server>` when none is provided).
  - Tool signature + schema fetching for `list`.
- Provide lazy connection pooling per server to minimize startup cost.
- Expose a lightweight server proxy (`createServerProxy`) that maps camelCase method accesses to tool names, fills JSON-schema defaults, validates required arguments, and returns a helper (`CallResult`) for extracting text/markdown/JSON without re-parsing the content envelope.
- Document Cursor-compatible `config/mcp-runtime.json` structure; support env-sourced headers and stdio commands while keeping inline overrides available for scripts.

## Schema-Aware Proxy Strategy
- Cache tool schemas on first access; tolerate failures by falling back to raw `callTool`.
- Allow direct method-style invocations such as `context7.getLibraryDocs("react")` by:
  - Mapping camelCase properties to kebab-case tool names.
  - Detecting positional arguments and assigning them to required schema fields in order.
  - Handling multi-argument tools (e.g., Firecrawl’s `scrape`/`map`) via positional arrays, plain objects, or mixed option bags.
  - Merging JSON-schema defaults and validating required fields before dispatch.
- Return `CallResult` objects exposing `.raw`, `.text()`, `.markdown()`, `.json()` helpers for consistent post-processing.
- Keep implementation generic—no hardcoded knowledge of specific servers—so new MCP servers automatically gain the ergonomic API.
- Encourage lightweight composition helpers in examples (e.g., resolving then fetching Context7 docs) while keeping library exports generic.
- Back the proxy with targeted unit tests that cover primitive-only calls, positional tuples + option bags, and error fallbacks when schemas are missing.

## Configuration
- Single file `config/mcp-runtime.json` mirrors Cursor/Claude schema: `mcpServers` map with entries containing `baseUrl` or `command`+`args`, optional `headers`, `env`, `description`, `auth`, `tokenCacheDir`, and convenience `bearerToken`/`bearerTokenEnv` fields.
- Optional `imports` array (defaulting to ['cursor', 'claude-code', 'claude-desktop', 'codex']) controls auto-merging of editor configs; entries earlier in the list win conflicts while local definitions can still override.
- Provide `configPath` override for scripts/tests; keep inline overrides in examples for completeness but default to file-based configuration.
- Add fixtures validating HTTP vs. stdio normalization and header/env behavior.

## Work Phases
1. **Scaffold Package**
   - Init pnpm workspace config, tsconfig, lint/test scaffolding, build script.
2. **Core Runtime**
   - Port config parsing + env/header logic.
   - Implement connection cache, tool invocation, resource helpers.
3. **CLI Surface**
   - Implement `list` (with optional schema) and `call` commands.
   - Ensure output parity with existing helper.
4. **Testing & Fixtures**
   - Mock representative MCP servers (stdio + HTTP + OAuth) for integration tests.
   - Snapshot output for `list` vs. `call`.
5. **Docs & Migration**
   - Write README + migration doc.
   - Update Sweetistics docs to point to the new package.

## Open Questions
- How aggressively should we parallelize list calls? Current helper serializes to avoid load.
- Should we bundle a minimal REPL for ad-hoc debugging, or keep CLI focused on list/call?
- Do we expose streaming/async iterator interfaces for tools returning logs?
- What UX do we provide for completing OAuth browser flows (automated callback server vs. copy/paste codes)?

Commit message:

docs: update spec for cli generator

docs/spec.md, after:

---
summary: 'Plan for the mcp-runtime package replacing the Sweetistics pnpm MCP helpers.'
---

# mcp-runtime Roadmap

> Inspired in part by Anthropic’s guidance on MCP code execution agents: https://www.anthropic.com/engineering/code-execution-with-mcp

## Goals
- Provide a TypeScript runtime + CLI that exposes all MCP servers defined in `~/Projects/sweetistics/config/mcp-runtime.json`.
- Preserve current one-shot `pnpm mcp:call` ergonomics while enabling reusable connections for Bun/Node agents.
- Keep feature parity with the Python helper (env interpolation, stdio wrapping, OAuth caching) and extend test coverage.

## Deliverables
- `packages/mcp-runtime` (standalone npm package) exporting:
  - `createRuntime()` for shared connections (list/call tools, resolve resources).
  - `callOnce()` convenience matching today’s single-call flow.
  - Typed utilities for env/header resolution and stdio command execution.
- CLI entry point (`npx mcp-runtime list|call`) built on the same runtime.
- CLI generator (`npx mcp-runtime generate-cli`) that emits standalone CLIs (plain TypeScript or bundled JS) with embedded schemas and Commander-based subcommands, targeting Node or Bun.
- Test harness using the Sweetistics MCP fixtures to validate every configured server definition.
- Documentation: README, usage examples, migration guide for replacing `pnpm mcp:*`.

## Architecture Notes
- Load MCP definitions from JSON (support relative paths + HTTPS).
- Reuse `@modelcontextprotocol/sdk` transports; wrap stdio via `scripts/mcp_stdio_wrapper.sh`.
- Mirror Python helper behavior:
  - `${VAR}`, `${VAR:-default}`, `$env:VAR` interpolation.
- Optional OAuth token cache directory handling (defaulting to `~/.mcp-runtime/<server>` when none is provided).
  - Tool signature + schema fetching for `list`.
- Provide lazy connection pooling per server to minimize startup cost.
- Expose a lightweight server proxy (`createServerProxy`) that maps camelCase method accesses to tool names, fills JSON-schema defaults, validates required arguments, and returns a helper (`CallResult`) for extracting text/markdown/JSON without re-parsing the content envelope.
- Document Cursor-compatible `config/mcp-runtime.json` structure; support env-sourced headers and stdio commands while keeping inline overrides available for scripts.

## Schema-Aware Proxy Strategy
- Cache tool schemas on first access, persist them under `~/.mcp-runtime/<server>/schema.json` for reuse across processes, and tolerate failures by falling back to raw `callTool`.
- Allow direct method-style invocations such as `context7.getLibraryDocs("react")` by:
  - Mapping camelCase properties to kebab-case tool names.
  - Detecting positional arguments and assigning them to required schema fields in order.
  - Handling multi-argument tools (e.g., Firecrawl’s `scrape`/`map`) via positional arrays, plain objects, or mixed option bags.
  - Merging JSON-schema defaults and validating required fields before dispatch.
- Return `CallResult` objects exposing `.raw`, `.text()`, `.markdown()`, `.json()` helpers for consistent post-processing.
- Keep implementation generic—no hardcoded knowledge of specific servers—so new MCP servers automatically gain the ergonomic API.
- Encourage lightweight composition helpers in examples (e.g., resolving then fetching Context7 docs) while keeping library exports generic.
- Back the proxy with targeted unit tests that cover primitive-only calls, positional tuples + option bags, and error fallbacks when schemas are missing.

## Standalone CLI Generation
- `generate-cli` should accept inline JSON, file paths, or existing config names and produce a ready-to-run CLI that maps tools to Commander subcommands.
- Embed schemas (via `listTools { includeSchema: true }`) directly in the generated source so repeat executions avoid additional metadata calls.
- Support optional bundling through esbuild, producing Node-friendly `.cjs` files or Bun-ready `.js` binaries with executable shebangs.
- Surface flags for output path, runtime target (`node` or `bun`), bundle destination, and per-call timeout (default 30s).
- Add integration tests asserting the generated CLI can list tools, execute with positional/flag arguments, and hydrate cache files without additional list calls.

## Configuration
- Single file `config/mcp-runtime.json` mirrors Cursor/Claude schema: `mcpServers` map with entries containing `baseUrl` or `command`+`args`, optional `headers`, `env`, `description`, `auth`, `tokenCacheDir`, and convenience `bearerToken`/`bearerTokenEnv` fields.
- Optional `imports` array (defaulting to ['cursor', 'claude-code', 'claude-desktop', 'codex']) controls auto-merging of editor configs; entries earlier in the list win conflicts while local definitions can still override.
- Provide `configPath` override for scripts/tests; keep inline overrides in examples for completeness but default to file-based configuration.
- Add fixtures validating HTTP vs. stdio normalization, header/env behavior, and editor config imports (Cursor, Claude Code/Desktop, Codex) to ensure priority ordering matches defaults.

## Work Phases
1. **Scaffold Package**
   - Init pnpm workspace config, tsconfig, lint/test scaffolding, build script.
2. **Core Runtime**
   - Port config parsing + env/header logic.
   - Implement connection cache, tool invocation, resource helpers.
3. **CLI Surface**
   - Implement `list` (with optional schema) and `call` commands.
   - Ensure output parity with existing helper.
   - Add `generate-cli` for standalone/bundled CLIs with embedded schema caching.
4. **Testing & Fixtures**
   - Mock representative MCP servers (stdio + HTTP + OAuth) for integration tests.
   - Snapshot output for `list` vs. `call`.
5. **Docs & Migration**
   - Write README + migration doc.
   - Update Sweetistics docs to point to the new package.

## Open Questions
- How aggressively should we parallelize list calls? Current helper serializes to avoid load.
- Should we bundle a minimal REPL for ad-hoc debugging, or keep CLI focused on list/call?
- Do we expose streaming/async iterator interfaces for tools returning logs?
- What UX do we provide for completing OAuth browser flows (automated callback server vs. copy/paste codes)?
